<h1> <b>Molecular Ecological Network Analysis (MENA)</b> </h1>
<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>This repository contains code related to the investigation of Eukaryote-Prokaryote interactions through Molecular Ecological Network Analysis (MENA) and network analysis techniques. MENA, available at http://129.15.40.240/mena/, is a computational framework commonly used in microbial ecology to examine complex relationships and interactions between taxa of microbial profiles.</p>
<h2>Dataset</h2>
<p>The MENA algorithm was applied to a dataset representing the relative abundance of species across different depths (2 cm, 6 cm, 8 cm, 12 cm, and 23 cm) and time points (5 weeks, 9 weeks, 12 weeks, and 23 weeks), encompassing 75% of the samples. </p>
<h2>Code Usage Instructions</h2>
<h3>1. Preparing Your Data for MENA (1_Mena_Readyfile.R)</h3>
<p>This script is used to prepare your data for analysis with MENA. Follow these steps to use it:</p>
<ol>
  <li>The script will preprocess your data and generate files necessary for MENA analysis.</li>
  <li>If the generated dataset containing the top 75% most abundant taxa has fewer than 50 taxa, MENA will not be applied, and the threshold will be adjusted accordingly.</li>
  <li>Adjustments to the minimum prevalence are based on the dataset size to ensure effective analysis with MENA.</li>
</ol>


<h3>2. Applying MENA to Your Dataset)</h3>
<p>Once your data is prepared, you can apply MENA using the following scripts:</p>
<h4>Algorithm Steps</h4>
<h4>Upload Datasets:</h4><p>Upload the prepared datasets into the software</p>
<h4>Construct Network:</h4>
<ol><h4>Upload datasets</h4><li>Upload the prepared datasets into the software</li></ol>
<ul>
  <li><b>code2.py:</b> This script performs the first stage of MENA analysis.</li>
  <li><b>code3.py:</b> This script performs additional processing steps.</li>
  <li><b>code4.py:</b> This script generates the final network based on MENA results.</li>
</ul>
<p>Follow these steps to apply MENA to your dataset:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Execute code2.py to start the MENA analysis process.</li>
  <li>Continue with code3.py and code4.py as needed, following the prompts and providing required inputs.</li>
  <li>Upon completion, MENA will generate output files containing network information.</li>
</ol>

<h3>3. Visualizing the Network (visualization.py)</h3>
<p>Once the network is generated, you can visualize it using the visualization script:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Execute visualization.py and provide the path to the network file generated by MENA.</li>
  <li>The script will generate visualizations of the network for analysis and interpretation.</li>
</ol>
